README.md, before:

# Specifying an R environment with a runtime.txt file

Jupyter+R: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?filepath=index.ipynb)

RStudio: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=rstudio)

RShiny: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=shiny/bus-dashboard/)

Binder supports using R and RStudio, with libraries pinned to a specific 
snapshot on [MRAN](https://mran.microsoft.com/documents/rro/reproducibility).

**Note:** An alternative is to use the [holepunch package for R](https://karthik.github.io/holepunch/articles/getting_started.html).

You need to have a `runtime.txt` file that is formatted like:

```
r-<YYYY>-<MM>-<DD>
```

where YYYY-MM-DD is a snapshot at MRAN that will be used for installing 
libraries. In this line, you can request a [specific 
version of R](https://github.com/jupyter/repo2docker/pull/772#issue-313426641). To do this list the version between the 'r' 
and the year, as in `r-3.6-2019-09-24`. Right now the default version of R is 3.6.

> We recommend using https://github.com/binder-examples/r-conda for faster installs than using a `install.R`

To install R libraries (or packages) you can add an [`install.R`](install.R) file that specifies one library to install per line.

Both [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) and [IRKernel](https://irkernel.github.io/)
are installed by default, so you can use either the Jupyter notebook interface or
the RStudio interface.

This repository also contains an example of a Shiny app.

Last, note that if your Binder URL points to a folder, as in 

http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=shiny/bus-dashboard/,

you will need (1) to put in the final slash in the URL, and (2) to avoid converted 
spaces-'%20'-in the URL, instead placing a hyphen.

Commit message:

Expanded some explanations
I expanded some explanations about requirements and suggestions--especially, how to create the URLs to access the RStudio and Shiny environments.

README.md, after:

# Specifying an R environment with a runtime.txt file

Jupyter+R: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?filepath=index.ipynb)

RStudio: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=rstudio)

RShiny: [![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=shiny/bus-dashboard/)

Binder supports using R and RStudio, with libraries pinned to a specific 
snapshot on [MRAN](https://mran.microsoft.com/documents/rro/reproducibility).

**Note:** An alternative is to use the [holepunch package for R](https://karthik.github.io/holepunch/articles/getting_started.html).

### Requirements and suggestions

You need to have a `runtime.txt` file that is formatted like:

```
r-<YYYY>-<MM>-<DD>
```

where YYYY-MM-DD is a snapshot at MRAN that will be used for installing 
libraries. In this line, you can request a [specific 
version of R](https://github.com/jupyter/repo2docker/pull/772#issue-313426641). To do this list the version between the 'r' 
and the year, as in `r-3.6-2019-09-24`. Right now the default version of R is 3.6.

> We recommend using https://github.com/binder-examples/r-conda for faster installs than using a `install.R`

To install R libraries (or packages) you can add an [`install.R`](install.R) file that specifies one library to install per line.

Both [RStudio](https://www.rstudio.com/) and [IRKernel](https://irkernel.github.io/)
are installed by default, so you can use either the Jupyter notebook interface or
the RStudio interface.

This repository also contains an example of a [Shiny app](https://github.com/binder-examples/r/tree/master/bus-dashboard).

### URLs addresses for RStudio and Shiny environments

The Binder repository can be used to allow anyone to access an RStudio environment containing our code and data right 
in their web browser. It also allows hosting a Shiny app. For those purposes, we have to append a bit of text to the 
URL of our Binder repository, which we find out when we find out on [mybinder.org](https://mybinder.org/) when we enter 
the URL of our original repository from GitHub or Figshare, etc.

- For the RStudio environment, we must add the following at the end of the URL: `urlpath=rstudio`

  - Example: http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=rstudio
  
- For the Shiny app environment, we must add the following at the end of the URL: `urlpath=shiny`. In this case, we 
also have to note that if the Shiny app files are located in a folder, this folder should be specified in the URL, 
after a slash. We would then also have to put in the final slash in the URL, and avoid spaces in the name of the 
repository, placing instead a hyphen (the reason is that spaces are converted to `%20`).

  - Example: http://mybinder.org/v2/gh/binder-examples/r/master?urlpath=shiny/bus-dashboard/
